Never saw this coming! Well, I prepared for the test for about a month and that's just about it. If you have any questions, feel free to ask, and I am happy to answer, along with some helpful tips and tricks that definitely worked for me and might be applicable for you as well!
Background: Non-native speaker. Have nonetheless used English on a daily basis for over 20 years both in personal and professional settings. I am a postdoctoral scientist with extensive experience in academic writing. Also, an avid reader who happened to study English Literature for three years. It all would have helped me in sharpening writing skills.
Listening: Practise, practise, practise should be the mantra. I did as many mock tests as the time permitted. I completed Cambridge IELTS 20, 19, 18, 17, and 16 each containing 4 tests, so altogether 20 tests. They were timed to simulate a real-exam scenario. After registering for the test, British Council gave me free access to IELTS Premium test portal. I only did 10 listening tests on the portal. Actually, now I can confirm that Cambridge IELTS materials closely resemble the real test while those on the IELTS Premium portal are a little too difficult and feels rather dated.
Reading: The strategy was as above. IELTS Cambridge reading 20 to 16 and then 10 more tests on the Premium portal helped me master the required skills. Also, I watched online videos on YouTube to learn some helpful tips such as: answers appear mostly in the order of the text with just a few exceptions, for instance, matching headings; timing is key so practice skimming and scanning skills; no shortcuts in matching headings questions as you have to quickly read each paragraph to grasp their overall meanings; it may be worth trying matching headings questions first as it is the most difficult part and once that segment is done, you have plenty of time and peace of mind to focus on easier sections.  I did it that way, but stick to what works best for you. I still had about 10 minutes to double check my answers.
Writing: I asked ChatGPT to write model band 9 essays for over 100 topics – literally every previous IELTS essay that appeared! After going through them, I could discern a few key patterns there. Stick to the topic, do not diverge from what is being asked. One doesn’t actually need to use a bombastic language filled with wordy, complex sentences and inflated vocabulary to receive a high score. They ask you to write just 250 words about a standard topic (frequently about things like technology, environment, health, or social issues), in clear, succinct English without making any spelling mistakes and grammatical errors. And you don’t need to be Shakespeare for mastering it. A strategy that worked for me was reading articles on current affairs published in various websites such as BBC and CNN. Newspaper articles are written in clear, concise English with high-level words here and there sporadically but without overdoing it and generally in an emotion-free tone and no sensationalization of the context. This is exactly what IELTS band 8-9 writing should be like. The essay should read seamlessly without attracting special attention. I did Task 2 first, completing it in 30 minutes and then completed task 1 in 15 minutes. That gave me about 15 minutes to check on my grammar and make necessary improvements in the text where necessary. One thing I cannot emphasize enough is spending a few minutes for each task simply planning your answer. Just write down the facts you would discuss in your essay quickly as bullet points in the paper they provide before embarking on writing.
Speaking: Be natural, spontaneous, and evocative. Just imagine you are having a conversation with a friend the only difference being you are talking about some important topics during the actual test. Keep your calm. I am the kind of person who freaks out if someone interferes out of the blue during my speech – this is probably the reason for that 0.5 reduction in my score. Everything went on flawlessly, until the examiner asked a rather unfamiliar question during the last section of the test and while I answered it promptly a follow-up question was thrown at me simply asking “Why”? It caught me off-guard and I had to force myself to calm my nerves. Fortunately, I had the smartness to tell them “Well, that’s a tough one. Please give me a moment to think a little”. Actually, that situation was not even about demonstrating my English proficiency as I would still be clueless if the same question was asked in my native language lol! But be prepared for unexpected interventions like that. On the positive side, I spotted on IELTS Advantage YouTube channel Chris saying that it is actually a good sign if the examiner is intervening you with such unprecedented questions as you are most likely being considered for a higher band!
I can say that IELTS Advantage was a great resource for learning all the required skills in all 4 modules.
